---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-03-11"

keywords: IBM Cloud, LogDNA, Activity Tracker, events, global, regional, data, management

subcollection: Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:pre: .pre}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:download: .download}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}


# Event types
{: #event_types}

In {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}, you can differentiate events by scope as global or location-based events, and by operational impact as management or data events.
{:shortdesc}

Events can be classified as `management` or `data` events. 

Data events access or modify customer data. Management events report on operational actions on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resources.
{: note}


Events can also be classified as `global` or `location-based`. The scope of the event determines where you monitor events.

Global events report user actions in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} whose scope expands beyond a single region. Meanwhile, location-based events remain local to the location where a subscribed cloud service is hosted.
{: note}



## Management events
{: #event_types_management}

**Management events** report on the following actions:
* Actions that are generated when an API call reads or changes the state of a resource and does not access or modify customer data
* Actions on non-API actions that report DevOps actions on resources in the account

* Report activity on CRUD operational platform actions, for example: 

    CRUD user management actions

    Changes to account configuration settings

    CRUD IAM actions

    CRUD managing tags

    CRUD actions managing service instances

* Report activity on CRUD actions on resources that do not access, or modify customer data, for example:

    Create a resource that does not include customer metadata such as create a toolchain

    Send a notification

* Report configuration changes to resources that do not access, or modify customer data, for example:

    Enable archiving

* Report activity on scheduled jobs that access or modify resources in the account, for example:

    Database backup scheduled job



You identify management events by the value of the field **dataEvent**. When this field is set to **false**, the event is a management event.

Management events are enabled in all the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} accounts.






## Data events
{: #event_types_data}

**Data events** report on actions where the initiator's request modifies, or operates on your data.

You identify data events by the value of the field **dataEvent**. When this field is set to **true**, the event is a data event.

Data events are enabled in all the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} accounts. However, there are some exceptions:
* Services that generates high volumes of data events require that you opt-in:

    {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}

    {{site.data.keyword.appid_full_notm}}

    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}}

* Services might require a service plan to opt-in to data events, such as some Watson services.


## Global events
{: #event_types_global}

**Global events** report on activity in your account that relate to data and resources that are generally synchronized across all regions.
{: note}

Global events are generated by integrated platform services such as IAM.

The following services generate global events in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}:
* Integrated platform services fo managing account settings and resources such as service instances, users, billing, and tags
* {{site.data.keyword.iamlong}} (IAM)
* {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}

The global domain is set in **Frankfurt**. Global events are captured and made available through the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance that is configured in Frankfurt.

For example, when account administrators invite users to join the account, they can do it from any {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} location. They might invite a user that is located in Frankfurt and grant this user permissions to work with a service that is provisioned in Dallas. Events that report on this type of action are considered global events and are available through the global domain in your account. 
    
Another example, you might provision or delete a service instance in a location. Although a service instance is created in a specific location, this type of actions are reported as global events to offer a single view of all the service instances that are provisioned across the account.



## Location-based events
{: #event_types_location}

**Location-based events** report on activity in your account that is generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services that are hosted within an {{site.data.keyword.IBM_notm}} data centre location, like Dallas or Frankfurt. 
{: note}


When clients and applications interact with cloud services hosted within a location, location-based events are captured and made available through the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance that is configured in that location. You view these events by [launching the web UI](/docs/Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA?topic=Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA-launch) in that location.
    
Location-based events maintain data locality to the services that run in that Cloud location.
{: important}

For example, if you provision the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} service in the Frankfurt location, events from that instance will be sent to the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance that is provisioned in Frankfurt. If you provision the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} service in the Dallas location, events from that instance will be sent to the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance that is provisioned in Dallas. In both cases, events are kept local to the region and location of the subscribed Cloud Service.




