---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-03-09"

keywords: IBM Cloud, LogDNA, Activity Tracker, event fields

subcollection: logdnaat

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:pre: .pre}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:download: .download}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}



# Event fields
{: #event}

{{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} events are based on the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard. 
{:shortdesc}

The CADF standard defines a full event model that includes the information that is needed to certify, manage, and audit security of applications in cloud environments.

The CADF event model includes the following components:

| Component | Description |
|------------|----------------------------|
| `Action`   | The action is the operation or activity that an initiator performs, attempts to perform, or is waiting to complete. |
| `Initiator`| The initiator is the resource that makes an API call and generates a CADF event. The event that is triggered depends on the action that is requested by the API call. |
| `Observer` | The observer is the resource that creates and stores a CADF record from information available in a CADF event. |
| `Outcome`  | The outcome is the status of the action against the target. |
| `Target`   | The target is the resource against which the action is performed, attempted to perform, or is pending to complete. |
{: caption="Table 2. Components that are available in a CADF event model" caption-side="top"} 


The following fields are included in each Activity Tracker event:


## action (string)
{: #action_field}

This field indicates the action that triggers an event. 
{: note}

The format of this field is the following:

```
serviceName.objectType.action
```
{: codeblock}

Where 

* `servicename` is the name of the service.

    There is an exception on the `servicename` that is set for actions reported by the VPC infrastructure. The format of the `servicename` is composed of 2 parts that are separated by a dot `.`.

* `objectType` describes the resource or resource attribute on which the action is requested. 

* `action` defines the task requested by the initiator.  

    Some valid actions are: `add`, `bulkdelete`, `create`, `read`, `update`,`delete`, `backup`, `build`, `capture`, `configure`, `deploy`, `disable`, `enable`, `get`, `import`, `inspect`, `list`, `monitor`, `pull`, `push`, `restore`, `start`, `stop`, `undeploy`, `receive`, `reimport`, `remove`, `send`, `set`, `set-on`, `set-off`, `authenticate`, `read`, `renew`, `revoke`, `allow`, `deny`, `evaluate`, `notify`, `rotate`

For more information about action values that are generated by services, see [Cloud services](/docs/Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA?topic=logdnaat-cloud_services#cloud_services).

For example, a sample action is `iam-am.policy.create`.


## eventTime (string)
{: #eventTime_field}

This field indicates the timestamp when the event was created. 
{: note}

The timestamp that you see for an event in the LogDNA web UI is set from eventTime and indicates the time when the event was created.
{: important}
  
The date is represented as Universal Time Coordinated (UTC). 

The format of this field is: 

```
YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.SS+0000
```
{: codeblock}
   
For example, a sample eventTime is `2017-10-19T19:07:50.32+0000`.



## Initiator fields
{: #initiator}

Initiator fields provide information about the user, service, or application that request to run an action in your account. 
{: note}

The following table lists the common fields that are available for each event:

| Field Name                  | Description | Example |
|-----------------------------|-------------|-------|
| `initiator.id`              | ID of the initiator of the action. | Example of an IBMID is `IBMid-000000XXX2` </br>Example of a service ID is `iam-ServiceId-12345678-0165-4c89-847d-9660b1632e14` </br>Example of a CF user ID is `7666666b-23ae-4a34-8569-cu75tgdr4da3` |
| `initiator.name`            | Username of the initiator that initiated the action. | For example, an email address. |
| `initiator.typeURI`         | Type of the source of the event. | `service/security/account/user` |
| `initiator.credential.type` | Type of initiator ID credential. | `apikey` |
| `initiator.host.address`    | IP address where the request came from | `19.12.134.145` |
{: caption="Table 1. Common initiator fields" caption-side="top"} 




### initiator.id (string)
{: #initiator.id}

This field provides information about the ID of the initiator of the action. 
{: note}

You can find any of the following initiators:
* `IBM ID` for users that use an IAM token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Service ID` for services or applications that trigger an action in your account.
* `Cloud Foundry (CF) user ID` for users that use a UAA token to trigger an action in your account.
* `Certificate ID` for requests where a certificate is used to trigger an action in your account.

### initiator.name (string)
{: #initiator.name}
 
This field provides information about the username of the initiator of the action.
{: note}

This is the human readable name that corresponds to the `initiator.id` value. 

### initiator.typeURI (string)
{: #initiator.typeURI}

This field defines the type of the source of the event.
{: note}

Valid values are: `service/security/account/user`, `service/security/account/serviceid`, `service/security/client/certificateid`, `service/security/clientid`



### initiator.credential.type (string)
{: #initiator.credential.type}

This field defines the type of credential that is used by the initiator to run the action.
{: note}

Valid values are: `token`, `user`, `apikey`, `certificate`



### initiator.host.address (string)
{: #initiator.host.address}

This field provides information about the address where the request came from. 
{: note}

The format of this field is:

```
xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```
{: codeblock}

For example, a sample `initiator.host.address` is `15.234.123.12`.

When the initiator of an action is an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} service, this field is left empty.
{: note}





## logSourceCRN  (string)
{: #logSourceCRN}

This field defines the resource where the event is generated. 
{: note}




## message (string)
{: #message}

This field is set to the human-readable description of the event. 
{: note}

The format of this field is: 

```
serviceName: {event description} [outcome]
```
{: codeblock}

Where 

* `servicename` indicates the name of the service
* `{event description}` provides a human-readable version of the what the event is reporting
* `outcome` is optional and is only included when the outcome of the request is `failure`




## observer.name (string)
{: #observer_name_field}

This field is set to the fixed value **ActivityTracker**.
{: note}



## outcome (string)
{: #outcome}

This field indicates the result of the action. 
{: note}

Valid values are: `success`, `pending`, or `failure`


## reason.reasonCode (numeric)
{: #reason.reasonCode}

This field returns the HTTP response code of the action requested.
{: note}



## reason.reasonType (string)
{: #reason.reasonType}

This field provides additional information about the result of the action requested. 
{: note}

When the outcome is failure, you can find additional information in the field `requestData.reasonForFailure` if the event includes this field.




  
## requestData (JSON)
{: #requestData}

When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request.  
{: note}

This field is optional.


## responseData (JSON)
{: #responseData}
 
When the field is available, it includes additional information about the request. 
{: note}

This field is optional.


## saveServiceCopy (boolean)
{: #saveServiceCopy}

This field determines whether the IBM service that generates the event saves a copy of the event for {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} auditing.
{: note} 

When it is set to `true`, the service that generates the event saves a copy.


## severity (string)
{: #severity}

This field defines the level of threat an action may have on the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.
{: note}

Valid values are: `normal`, `warning`, and `critical`

The following table captures how theis field is set based on the type of action:

| Value      | Type of action | Sample of action |
|------------|----------------|------------------|
| `normal`   | Routine actions in the Cloud | Start an instance | 
| `warning`  | Actions that fail </br>Actions where a resource is updated or its metadata is modified | Rename a service instance | 
| `critical` | Actions that affect security in the Cloud such as changing credentials of a user or deleting data </br>Actions where the initiator is not authorized to work with a Cloud resource | Delete a security key |
{: caption="Table 2. Severity values by type of action" caption-side="top"}



## Target fields
{: #target}

Target fields provide information about the resource that is accessed, created, updated, or deleted by the initiator's action in your account. 
{: note}


The following table lists common target fields that are available for each event:

| Field Name | Description | Value |
|------------|-------------|-------|
| `target.id` | Cloud Resource Name (CRN) of the resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/12345678e6232019c6567c9123456789:fr56et47-befb-440a-a223c-12345678dae1:bucket:bucket1` |
| `target.name` | Human-readable name of the cloud resource on which the action is executed. |  |
| `target.typeURI` | Type of the cloud resource on which the action is executed. | For example, `iam-am/policy` or `cloud-object-storage/bucket/acl` |
| `target.host.address` | IP Address or URL of the target service |  | 
{: caption="Table 3. Common target fields" caption-side="top"} 



### target.id (string)
{: #target.id}

This value indicates the cloud resource on which the action is executed. 
{: note}

The format of this field is a **CRN**. For more information, see [CRN format](/docs/overview?topic=overview-crn#format-crn).



### target.name (string)
{: #target.name}

This field indicates the human readable name of the cloud resource on which the action is executed.
{: note}

Make sure that the name of resources does not include sensitive or PII data. 



### target.typeURI (string)
{: #target.typeURI}

This field indicates the type of the target of the event. 
{: note}

The format of this field is: 

```
serviceName/objectType/attribute
```
{: codeblock}

Where

* `servicename` is the name of the service.
* `objectType` is the resource on which the action is run.
 
For example, check out the following samples:

| action                                            | target.typeURI                                  |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| cloudcerts.certificate.import                     | cloudcerts/certificate                          |
| container-registry.namespace.create               | container-registry/namespace                    |
| kms.secrets.read                                  | kms/secrets                                     |
| cloud-object-storage.instance.create              | cloud-object-storage/instance                   |
| cloud-object-storage.object-multipart.create      | cloud-object-storage/object/multipart           |
{: caption="Table 4. target.typeURI examples" caption-side="top"}



### target.host.address (string)
{: #target.host.address}

This field defines the IP Address or URL of the target service.
{: note}

This field is optional.


## Labels and line identifiers
{: #labels}

Labels and line identifiers provide information about the service that is generating the event.
{: note}

The following table outlines common labels and line identifiers that you can find in events:

| Area               | Label              | Description                                          | Event field name that you can use to search |
|--------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `IBM`              | `platform-service` | Service that generates the event                     | `_platform`      |
| `Line identifier`  | `Source`           | Service that generates the event                     | `host`           |
| `Line identifier`  | `Env`              | Environment: `production`                            | `env`            |
| `Line identifier`  | `App`              | CRN of the service instance in your account          | `app`            |
{: caption="Table 5. labels and line identifiers" caption-side="top"}





